mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
a circular sector can be folded into the
shape of a three-dimensional cone
by joining its two radii together
the exact size of the cone will depend
on the size of the circular sector
let's unroll this cone back into a
circular sector
suppose that we have a fixed radius of
this circular sector
and we just vary the central angle of
what will happen to the cone naturally
the cone will change in size it will go
from tall and narrow
to very long and wide until it flattens
into a circle
each of these circular sectors
corresponds to a different size of the
cone
the question will be the following if we
have a circular sector whose radius is
equal to one
and central angle is equal to theta what
is the maximum volume of the cone
that's possible part two
solve for theta when the cone's volume
is a maximum
i thank joe for the suggestion pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
the dimensions of the circular sector
will determine the size of the cone
the radius of the circular sector will
be equal to the slant height of the cone
since the radius is equal to 1 the slant
height is equal to 1.
we then have the arc length of the
circular sector
will be equal to the circumference of
the base of the cone
the size of the arc length is equal to
its radius
multiplied by the central angle in this
case we have one
multiplied by theta which will be equal
to theta
therefore the circumference of the base
of the cone will also be equal to theta
now focus on just the cone we'll label
the radius of the base as r
and the height of the cone as h we have
a right triangle form between the radius
the height and the slant height
we can thus use the gogo theorem to
determine that r squared plus h
squared is equal to one squared we then
solve this equation for r
squared from here we will go to the
formula for the volume of a
cone it'll be equal to 1 3 pi r squared
h
since we know what r squared is equal to
we'll substitute that into the formula
and then we'll simplify we thus have a
formula for the volume in terms of just
one variable
h we'll thus take the first derivative
with respect to h
and we'll set it equal to zero to solve
for the maximum volume
we'll solve this equation very easily to
get that h is equal to one divided by
the square root of 3.
just for fun we can double check that
this is a local maximum
we then substitute the value for h into
the volume formula
and we get the maximum volume is equal
to 2 pi divided by 9 times the square
root of 3.
from here we need to calculate the
central angle theta
which gives us maximum volume to do that
we'll solve for the radius using this
formula
we'll solve for r and then we'll
substitute in for h
we get that r is equal to the square
root of two over three
then we consider the circumference of
the base of the cone
the circumference is equal to theta and
it's also equal to two pi r
we substitute in for r and we thus have
the value of theta
in radians we multiply this equation by
180 over pi
to get the answer in degrees and that's
approximately equal
to 293 293.9 degrees and that's
our answer this is a fun optimization
problem
and the answer works out very nicely
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on youtube
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support